Hypothalamus Implementation (#459)
Deep-MI/FastSurfer: HypVINN/README.md

# Hypothalamus pipeline

Hypothalamic subfields segmentation pipeline

### Input
*  T1 or T2 or both image

### Requirements
Same as FastSurfer

> FreeSurfer should also be source to run the code and the mri_coreg ang mri_vol2vol binary should be also available

Reviewer: Can you add code that it is enough if FREESURFER_HOME is defined?

### Model weights
* Julich records: https://b2share.fz-juelich.de/records/27ab0a28c11741558679c819d608f1e7
* Zenodo records: https://zenodo.org/records/10623893

### Pipeline Steps

> 1. Bias Field Correction Step

Reviewer: This should be optional (run_fastsurfer has already run bias field correction at this point). Mayb we need to check that the intensity ranges are not too different because of this, but I see no real argument to run bias field correction several times in the pipeline...
This is pretty important to fix soon-ish.

Reviewer: I guess you can specify --no_bc, we still need to check if our bias field works well with hypo-seg, because the intensities might be different....

> 1. Bias Field Correction Step (optional)

Reviewer: The more I think about it the more I am thinking that bias field correction should not be part of your script. We can then remove all the bias correction code from HypVINN, dont have the scripts in there multiple times etc.
In the standard (non-developer) way to run HypVINN (and FastSurfer), everything (including the biasfield) is orchestrated via run_fastsurfer.sh, so we KNOW we have a bias-field corrected image. And we just write into the API for HypVINN, that the t1 image needs to be bias-field corrected.
This is also kind of how CerebNet does it (the bias field corrected image is only used for segstats there, but still).

2. Registration (only required when doing multi-modal input)
3. Hypothalamus Segmentation

### Running the tool
Run the HypVINN/run_pipeline.py which has the following arguments:
### Input and output arguments
 * `--sid <name>` :  Subject ID, the subject data upon which to operate
 * `--sd <name>` : Directory in which evaluation results should be written.
 *  `--t1 </dir/T1**.nii.gz>` : T1 image path, required = True
 *  `--t2 </dir/T2**.nii.gz>` : T2 image path, T2 image not required when running the t1 mode for the others is required , required = False

>  * `--mode <name>` : Mode to run segmentation based on the available modalities. If is set to auto the model will choose the mode based on the passed input images, 

Reviewer: Is the mode not implicit by which files are passed? I mean, I cannot run t1 and t2 mode if I only pass t1 images, right?

                     t1 : only T1 images, t2 : only T2 images or multi : both T1 and T2 images, default = 'auto'
 * `--seg_log` :  Path to file in which run logs will be saved. If not set logs will be stored in /sd/sid/logs/hypvinn_seg.log 
### Image processing options

>  * `--no_pre_proc`: Deactivate all pre-processing steps, This is recommended when images are already bias field corrected and co-register if T1 and T2 are available

Reviewer: Is this --no_bc + --no_reg?

 * `--no_bc` : Deactivate bias field correction, it is recommended to do bias field correction for calculating volumes taking account partial volume effects, reguired = False
 * `--no_reg` : Deactivate registration of T2 to T1. If multi mode is used; images need to be register properly, required = False

>  * `--reg_type` : Freesurfer Registration type to run. coreg : mri_coreg (Default) or robust : mri_robust_register.

Reviewer: I am not sure whether mri_robust_register is in install_fs_pruned.

                                     --t2 /data/test_subject_t2.nii.gz \
                                     --reg_type coreg \
                                     --seg_log /outdir/test_subject.log \
                                     --batch_size 6 --no_pre_proc
   ```

4. Run pipeline with no bias field correction
    ```
    python HypVINN/run_pipeline.py  --sid test_subject --sd /output \
                                     --t1 /data/test_subject_t1.nii.gz \
                                     --t2 /data/test_subject_t2.nii.gz \
                                     --reg_type coreg \
                                     --seg_log /outdir/test_subject.log \
                                     --batch_size 6 --no_bc
   ```

### Output
```  bash
#Output Scheme 
|-- output_dir
    |--sid                                 
        |-- mri : MRI outputs
            |--hypothalamus.HypVINN.nii.gz(Hypothalamus Segmentation)
            |-- hypothalamus_mask.HypVINN.nii.gz (Hypothalamus Segmentation Mask)
            |-- transforms
                |-- t2tot1.lta (FreeSurfer registration file, only available if registration is performed)

>         |-- qc_snapshots : QC outputs

Reviewer: I think there should be a flag to either activate or deactivate this output. Maybe we discuss this.

Hypothalamic subfields segmentation pipeline

### Input
*  T1w image, a T2w image, or both images. Note: Input images to the tool need to be Bias-Field corrected.

### Requirements
* Same as FastSurfer.

> * If the T1w and T2w images are available and not co-registered, FreeSurfer should be source to run the registration code, and the mri_coreg and mri_vol2vol binary should also be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the T1w and T2w images are available and not co-registered, FreeSurfer should be sourced to run the registration code, and the mri_coreg and mri_vol2vol binaries should also be available.
```

### Usage
The Hypothalamus pipeline can be run by using a T1 a T2 or both images. 
Is recommended that all input images are bias field corrected and when passing both T1 and T2 they need to be co-registered.

> The pipeline can do all pre-processing by itself (steps 1) or omit this step if images are already curated beforehand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pipeline can do all pre-processing by itself (step 1). This step can be skipped if images are already registered externally. Note, that images are conformed as a first step, which can lead to additional interpolation reducing quality.
```

@santiestrada32 does the registration as part of the pipeline register to the conformed t1? Is there a way we can further resuce the interpolations? 

We don't have to include this in this PR though...

                                     --seg_log /outdir/test_subject.log \
                                     --batch_size 6
   ```
2. Run full pipeline only using a t1 
    ```
    python HypVINN/run_pipeline.py  --sid test_subject --sd /output \
                                     --t1 /data/test_subject_t1.nii.gz \
                                     --reg_type coreg \
                                     --seg_log /outdir/test_subject.log \
                                     --batch_size 6
   ```

> 3. Run pipeline with no registration step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run pipeline without the registration step
```
